README.md, before:

Tarantool kafka
===============
Full featured high performance kafka library for Tarantool based on [librdkafka](https://github.com/edenhill/librdkafka). 

Can produce more then 150k messages per second and consume more then 140k messages per second.

# Features
* Kafka producer and consumer implementations.
* Fiber friendly.
* Mostly errorless functions and methods. Error handling in Tarantool ecosystem is quite a mess, 
some libraries throws lua native `error` while others throws `box.error` instead. `kafka` returns 
non critical errors as strings which allows you to decide how to handle it.

# Requirements 
* Tarantool >= 1.10.2
* Tarantool development headers 
* librdkafka >= 0.11.5
* librdkafka development headers
* openssl-libs
* openssl development headers
* make
* cmake
* gcc 

# Installation
```bash
    tarantoolctl rocks install kafka
```

## Build module with statically linked librdkafka

To install kafka module with builtin librdkafka dependency, use option `STATIC_BUILD`:

```bash
tarantoolctl rocks STATIC_BUILD=ON install kafka
```

# Examples

## Consumer

### With auto offset store
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    local rebalance_callback = function(msg)
        log.info("got rebalance msg: %s", json.encode(msg))
    end

    local consumer, err = tnt_kafka.Consumer.create({
        brokers = "localhost:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {
            ["enable.auto.offset.store"] = "true",
            ["group.id"] = "example_consumer",
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
            ["enable.partition.eof"] = "false"
        }, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        rebalance_callback = rebalance_callback,  -- optional callback for rebalance messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end

    local err = consumer:subscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to subscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    fiber.create(function()
        local out, err = consumer:output()
        if err ~= nil then
            print(string.format("got fatal error '%s'", err))
            return
        end
        
        while true do
            if out:is_closed() then
                return
            end

            local msg = out:get()
            if msg ~= nil then
                print(string.format(
                    "got msg with topic='%s' partition='%s' offset='%s' key='%s' value='%s'", 
                    msg:topic(), msg:partition(), msg:offset(), msg:key(), msg:value()
                ))
            end
        end
    end)
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = consumer:unsubscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to unsubscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    local err = consumer:close() -- always stop consumer to commit all pending offsets before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

### With multiple fibers and manual offset store
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    local rebalance_callback = function(msg)
        log.info("got rebalance msg: %s", json.encode(msg))
    end

    local consumer, err = tnt_kafka.Consumer.create({
        brokers = "localhost:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {
            ["enable.auto.offset.store"] = "false",
            ["group.id"] = "example_consumer",
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
            ["enable.partition.eof"] = "false"
        }, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        rebalance_callback = rebalance_callback,  -- optional callback for rebalance messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end

    local err = consumer:subscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to subscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 10 do
        fiber.create(function()
            local out, err = consumer:output()
            if err ~= nil then
                print(string.format("got fatal error '%s'", err))
                return
            end
            while true do
                if out:is_closed() then
                    return
                end
    
                local msg = out:get()
                if msg ~= nil then
                    print(string.format(
                        "got msg with topic='%s' partition='%s' offset='%s' key='%s' value='%s'", 
                        msg:topic(), msg:partition(), msg:offset(), msg:key(), msg:value()
                    ))
                    
                    local err = consumer:store_offset(msg) -- don't forget to commit processed messages
                    if err ~= nil then
                        print(string.format(
                            "got error '%s' while commiting msg from topic '%s'", 
                            err, msg:topic()
                        ))
                    end
                end
            end
        end)
    end    
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = consumer:unsubscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to unsubscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    local err = consumer:close() -- always stop consumer to commit all pending offsets before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

## Producer

### With single fiber and async producer

```lua
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    
    local producer, err = tnt_kafka.Producer.create({
        brokers = "kafka:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {}, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["partitioner"] = "murmur2_random",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 1000 do    
        local err = producer:produce_async({ -- don't wait until message will be delivired to kafka
            topic = "test_topic",
            key = "test_key",
            value = "test_value" -- only strings allowed
        })
        if err ~= nil then
            print(err)
            os.exit(1)
        end
    end
    
    local err = producer:close() -- always stop consumer to send all pending messages before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

### With multiple fibers and sync producer
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    
    local producer, err = tnt_kafka.Producer.create({
        brokers = "kafka:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {}, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["partitioner"] = "murmur2_random",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 1000 do
        fiber.create(function()
            local message = "test_value " .. tostring(i)
            local err = producer:produce({ -- wait until message will be delivired to kafka (using channel under the hood)
                topic = "test_topic",
                key = "test_key", 
                value =  message -- only strings allowed
            })
            if err ~= nil then
                print(string.format("got error '%s' while sending value '%s'", err, message))
            else
                print(string.format("successfully sent value '%s'", message))
            end
        end)
    end
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = producer:close() -- always stop consumer to send all pending messages before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

# Known issues
* Consumer and Producer leaves some non gc'able objects in memory after has been stopped. It was done intentionally
because `rd_kafka_destroy` sometimes hangs forever.

# TODO
* Ordered storage for offsets to prevent commits unprocessed messages
* Fix known issues
* More examples
* Better documentation

# Benchmarks

Before any commands init and updated git submodule
```bash
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
```

## Producer

### Async

Result: over 160000 produced messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-async-producer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-async-producer-interactive
```

### Sync

Result: over 90000 produced messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-sync-producer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-sync-producer-interactive
```

## Consumer

### Auto offset store enabled

Result: over 190000 consumed messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-auto-offset-store-consumer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-auto-offset-store-consumer-interactive
```

### Manual offset store

Result: over 190000 consumed messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-manual-commit-consumer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-manual-commit-consumer-interactive
```

# Developing

## Tests
You can run docker based integration tests via makefile target
```bash
    make test-run-with-docker
```

Commit message:

Fixed following issues:  - consumer and producer yields in lua __gc meta methods which leads to crash for whole tarantool (?) - fixed by removing lua __gc meta methods and moving it's logic into separate destroy C functions which will be called from lua close methods of Consumer / Producer  - consumer:close sometimes hangs forever - fixed byfollowing changes:    - now we instantly destroying librdkafka messages on consume in poll thread which prevents rd_kafka_close and rd_kafka_destroy C functions hangs cause of busy resources    - now lua Consumer stops polling fibers only after librdkafka consumer was closed which prevents non handeled callbacks from closing operation  - producer sometimes hangs forever - updated librdkafka to 1.5.2

README.md, after:

Tarantool kafka
===============
Full featured high performance kafka library for Tarantool based on [librdkafka](https://github.com/edenhill/librdkafka). 

Can produce more then 150k messages per second and consume more then 140k messages per second.

# Features
* Kafka producer and consumer implementations.
* Fiber friendly.
* Mostly errorless functions and methods. Error handling in Tarantool ecosystem is quite a mess, 
some libraries throws lua native `error` while others throws `box.error` instead. `kafka` returns 
non critical errors as strings which allows you to decide how to handle it.

# Requirements 
* Tarantool >= 1.10.2
* Tarantool development headers 
* librdkafka >= 0.11.5
* librdkafka development headers
* openssl-libs
* openssl development headers
* make
* cmake
* gcc 

# Installation
```bash
    tarantoolctl rocks install kafka
```

## Build module with statically linked librdkafka

To install kafka module with builtin librdkafka dependency, use option `STATIC_BUILD`:

```bash
tarantoolctl rocks STATIC_BUILD=ON install kafka
```

# Examples

## Consumer

### With auto offset store
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    local rebalance_callback = function(msg)
        log.info("got rebalance msg: %s", json.encode(msg))
    end

    local consumer, err = tnt_kafka.Consumer.create({
        brokers = "localhost:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {
            ["enable.auto.offset.store"] = "true",
            ["group.id"] = "example_consumer",
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
            ["enable.partition.eof"] = "false"
        }, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        rebalance_callback = rebalance_callback,  -- optional callback for rebalance messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end

    local err = consumer:subscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to subscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    fiber.create(function()
        local out, err = consumer:output()
        if err ~= nil then
            print(string.format("got fatal error '%s'", err))
            return
        end
        
        while true do
            if out:is_closed() then
                return
            end

            local msg = out:get()
            if msg ~= nil then
                print(string.format(
                    "got msg with topic='%s' partition='%s' offset='%s' key='%s' value='%s'", 
                    msg:topic(), msg:partition(), msg:offset(), msg:key(), msg:value()
                ))
            end
        end
    end)
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = consumer:unsubscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to unsubscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    local err = consumer:close() -- always stop consumer to commit all pending offsets before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

### With multiple fibers and manual offset store
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    local rebalance_callback = function(msg)
        log.info("got rebalance msg: %s", json.encode(msg))
    end

    local consumer, err = tnt_kafka.Consumer.create({
        brokers = "localhost:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {
            ["enable.auto.offset.store"] = "false",
            ["group.id"] = "example_consumer",
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
            ["enable.partition.eof"] = "false"
        }, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        rebalance_callback = rebalance_callback,  -- optional callback for rebalance messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["auto.offset.reset"] = "earliest",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end

    local err = consumer:subscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to subscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 10 do
        fiber.create(function()
            local out, err = consumer:output()
            if err ~= nil then
                print(string.format("got fatal error '%s'", err))
                return
            end
            while true do
                if out:is_closed() then
                    return
                end
    
                local msg = out:get()
                if msg ~= nil then
                    print(string.format(
                        "got msg with topic='%s' partition='%s' offset='%s' key='%s' value='%s'", 
                        msg:topic(), msg:partition(), msg:offset(), msg:key(), msg:value()
                    ))
                    
                    local err = consumer:store_offset(msg) -- don't forget to commit processed messages
                    if err ~= nil then
                        print(string.format(
                            "got error '%s' while commiting msg from topic '%s'", 
                            err, msg:topic()
                        ))
                    end
                end
            end
        end)
    end    
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = consumer:unsubscribe({"test_topic"}) -- array of topics to unsubscribe
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    local err = consumer:close() -- always stop consumer to commit all pending offsets before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

## Producer

### With single fiber and async producer

```lua
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    
    local producer, err = tnt_kafka.Producer.create({
        brokers = "kafka:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {}, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["partitioner"] = "murmur2_random",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 1000 do    
        local err = producer:produce_async({ -- don't wait until message will be delivired to kafka
            topic = "test_topic",
            key = "test_key",
            value = "test_value" -- only strings allowed
        })
        if err ~= nil then
            print(err)
            os.exit(1)
        end
    end
    
    local err = producer:close() -- always stop consumer to send all pending messages before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

### With multiple fibers and sync producer
```lua
    local fiber = require('fiber')
    local os = require('os')
    local log = require('log')
    local tnt_kafka = require('kafka')
    
    local error_callback = function(err)
        log.error("got error: %s", err)
    end
    local log_callback = function(fac, str, level)
        log.info("got log: %d - %s - %s", level, fac, str)
    end
    
    local producer, err = tnt_kafka.Producer.create({
        brokers = "kafka:9092", -- brokers for bootstrap
        options = {}, -- options for librdkafka
        error_callback = error_callback, -- optional callback for errors
        log_callback = log_callback, -- optional callback for logs and debug messages
        default_topic_options = {
            ["partitioner"] = "murmur2_random",
        }, -- optional default topic options
    })
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
    
    for i = 1, 1000 do
        fiber.create(function()
            local message = "test_value " .. tostring(i)
            local err = producer:produce({ -- wait until message will be delivired to kafka (using channel under the hood)
                topic = "test_topic",
                key = "test_key", 
                value =  message -- only strings allowed
            })
            if err ~= nil then
                print(string.format("got error '%s' while sending value '%s'", err, message))
            else
                print(string.format("successfully sent value '%s'", message))
            end
        end)
    end
    
    fiber.sleep(10)
    
    local err = producer:close() -- always stop consumer to send all pending messages before app close
    if err ~= nil then
        print(err)
        os.exit(1)
    end
```

# Known issues
* Consumer and Producer leaves some non gc'able objects in memory after has been stopped. It was done intentionally
because `rd_kafka_destroy` sometimes hangs forever.

# TODO
* Ordered storage for offsets to prevent commits unprocessed messages
* Fix known issues
* More examples
* Better documentation

# Benchmarks

Before any commands init and updated git submodule
```bash
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
```

## Producer

### Async

Result: over 160000 produced messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-async-producer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-async-producer-interactive
```

### Sync

Result: over 90000 produced messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-sync-producer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-sync-producer-interactive
```

## Consumer

### Auto offset store enabled

Result: over 190000 consumed messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-auto-offset-store-consumer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-auto-offset-store-consumer-interactive
```

### Manual offset store

Result: over 190000 consumed messages per second on macbook pro 2016

Local run in docker:
```bash
    make docker-run-environment
    make docker-create-benchmark-manual-commit-consumer-topic
    make docker-run-benchmark-manual-commit-consumer-interactive
```

# Developing

## Tests
Before run any test you should add to `/etc/hosts` entry
```
127.0.0.1 kafka
```

You can run docker based integration tests via makefile target
```bash
    make test-run-with-docker
```
